generation/new_client/README.md, before:

# New Google Client Library Generation

The script allows you to create a new client library module in the
google-cloud-java monorepo.

**This tool is for repository maintainers only. Not for library users.**

## Prerequisites

This section is only needed for the first run of this script. If it's already
done, go to "Run client generation script" section.


### Environment

Use Linux environment.

Install Docker.

### Checkout google-cloud-java repository

```
$ git clone https://github.com/googleapis/google-cloud-java
$ git checkout main
$ git pull
```

### Install pyenv

Install pyenv

```
curl -L https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv-installer/raw/master/bin/pyenv-installer \
| bash
```

Append the following lines to `$HOME/.bashrc`.

```
export PYENV_ROOT="$HOME/.pyenv"
command -v pyenv >/dev/null || export PATH="$PYENV_ROOT/bin:$PATH"
eval "$(pyenv init -)"
eval "$(pyenv virtualenv-init -)"
```

Logout the shell and login again.

Confirm pyenv installation succeeded:

```
suztomo@suztomo:~$ pyenv
pyenv 2.3.4
Usage: pyenv <command> [<args>]

Some useful pyenv commands are:
   activate    Activate virtual environment
   commands    List all available pyenv commands
   deactivate   Deactivate virtual environment
...
```

### Install Python 3.9 via pyenv

```
suztomo@suztomo:~$ pyenv install 3.9.13
Downloading Python-3.9.13.tar.xz...
-> https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.9.13/Python-3.9.13.tar.xz
Installing Python-3.9.13...
WARNING: The Python sqlite3 extension was not compiled. Missing the SQLite3 lib?
Installed Python-3.9.13 to /usr/local/google/home/suztomo/.pyenv/versions/3.9.13
```

Conform `python3.9` command is available:

```
$ pyenv local 3.9.13
$ which python3.9
/usr/local/google/home/suztomo/.pyenv/shims/python3.9
```

### Install Python packages

At the root of google-cloud-java repository clone, run:

```
$ python3.9 -m pip install -r generation/new_client/requirements.txt
```

### Install GitHub CLI (Optional)

Install the GitHub CLI and login, if needed:

```
$ sudo apt-get install gh
$ gh auth login
```

## Run client generation script

You will run new-client.py script with the following parameters.
Collect them from the ticket before running the command.

### API short name

For convenience of the subsequent commands, define a variable for API short name.
Get the value from the DevRel Services page (Example: `apikeys`):

### proto path

The script takes "proto path" parameter. This is path from google3's root to the
directory that contains versions (e.g., "v1" or "v2"). For example, if we
have 

> Link to protos: http://google3/google/api/apikeys/v2/apikeys.proto

then the "proto path" value we supply to the command is "google/api/apikeys".

### Name pretty

Pick name from the display name in the DevRel Services site.
For example, "API Keys API" in
https://devrel.corp.google.com/admin/products/479.

### Product Docs

Find product document URL in the DevRel Services site.
For example, "https://cloud.google.com/api-keys/" in
https://devrel.corp.google.com/admin/products/479.
The value must starts with "https://".

### API description

Find the short description of the API. Usually the first sentence in the product
document above.

### Example arguments

Run `new-client.py` with the arguments above:

```
$ python3.9 generation/new_client/new-client.py generate \
  --api_shortname=apikeys \
  --proto-path=google/api/apikeys \
  --name-pretty="API Keys API" \
  --product-docs="https://cloud.google.com/api-keys/" \
  --api-description="API Keys lets you create and manage your API keys for your projects."
```

The command creates changes for
the new module in the monorepo. At the end (~ 10 minutes), it tells you to
create a pull request in the monorepo:

```
...
Please create a pull request:
  $ git checkout -b new_module_java-discoveryengine
  $ git add .
  $ git commit -m 'feat: [apikeys] new module for apikeys'
  $ gh pr create --title 'feat: [apikeys] new module for apikeys'
```

Create a pull request from the change.

# Principles

The script should finish creating a pull request even when the newly created
module fails to compile. This gives the user flexibility to fix things in the
created pull request.

Commit message:

docs: library generation example of Geo

generation/new_client/README.md, after:

# New Google Client Library Generation

The script allows you to create a new client library module in the
google-cloud-java monorepo.

**This tool is for repository maintainers only. Not for library users.**

## Prerequisites

This section is only needed for the first run of this script. If it's already
done, go to "Run client generation script" section.


### Environment

Use Linux environment.

Install Docker.

### Checkout google-cloud-java repository

```
$ git clone https://github.com/googleapis/google-cloud-java
$ git checkout main
$ git pull
```

### Install pyenv

Install pyenv

```
curl -L https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv-installer/raw/master/bin/pyenv-installer \
| bash
```

Append the following lines to `$HOME/.bashrc`.

```
export PYENV_ROOT="$HOME/.pyenv"
command -v pyenv >/dev/null || export PATH="$PYENV_ROOT/bin:$PATH"
eval "$(pyenv init -)"
eval "$(pyenv virtualenv-init -)"
```

Logout the shell and login again.

Confirm pyenv installation succeeded:

```
suztomo@suztomo:~$ pyenv
pyenv 2.3.4
Usage: pyenv <command> [<args>]

Some useful pyenv commands are:
   activate    Activate virtual environment
   commands    List all available pyenv commands
   deactivate   Deactivate virtual environment
...
```

### Install Python 3.9 via pyenv

```
suztomo@suztomo:~$ pyenv install 3.9.13
Downloading Python-3.9.13.tar.xz...
-> https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.9.13/Python-3.9.13.tar.xz
Installing Python-3.9.13...
WARNING: The Python sqlite3 extension was not compiled. Missing the SQLite3 lib?
Installed Python-3.9.13 to /usr/local/google/home/suztomo/.pyenv/versions/3.9.13
```

Conform `python3.9` command is available:

```
$ pyenv local 3.9.13
$ which python3.9
/usr/local/google/home/suztomo/.pyenv/shims/python3.9
```

### Install Python packages

At the root of google-cloud-java repository clone, run:

```
$ python3.9 -m pip install -r generation/new_client/requirements.txt
```

### Install GitHub CLI (Optional)

Install the GitHub CLI and login, if needed:

```
$ sudo apt-get install gh
$ gh auth login
```

## Run client generation script

You will run new-client.py script with the following parameters.
Collect them from the ticket before running the command.

### API short name

For convenience of the subsequent commands, define a variable for API short name.
Get the value from the DevRel Services page (Example: `apikeys`):

### proto path

The script takes "proto path" parameter. This is path from google3's root to the
directory that contains versions (e.g., "v1" or "v2"). For example, if we
have 

> Link to protos: http://google3/google/api/apikeys/v2/apikeys.proto

then the "proto path" value we supply to the command is "google/api/apikeys".

### Name pretty

Pick name from the display name in the DevRel Services site.
For example, "API Keys API" in
https://devrel.corp.google.com/admin/products/479.

### Product Docs

Find product document URL in the DevRel Services site.
For example, "https://cloud.google.com/api-keys/" in
https://devrel.corp.google.com/admin/products/479.
The value must starts with "https://".

### API description

Find the short description of the API. Usually the first sentence in the product
document above.

### Example arguments

Run `new-client.py` with the arguments above:

```
$ python3.9 generation/new_client/new-client.py generate \
  --api_shortname=apikeys \
  --proto-path=google/api/apikeys \
  --name-pretty="API Keys API" \
  --product-docs="https://cloud.google.com/api-keys/" \
  --api-description="API Keys lets you create and manage your API keys for your projects."
```

The command creates changes for
the new module in the monorepo. At the end (~ 10 minutes), it tells you to
create a pull request in the monorepo:

```
...
Please create a pull request:
  $ git checkout -b new_module_java-discoveryengine
  $ git add .
  $ git commit -m 'feat: [apikeys] new module for apikeys'
  $ gh pr create --title 'feat: [apikeys] new module for apikeys'
```

Create a pull request from the change.

## Advanced Options

Sometimes, a library generation requires special handling for
Maven coordinates or API ID, especially when the library is not
specific to Google Cloud. Use the following example of Google
Maps API to generate a module for such library:

```
~/google-cloud-java$ python3.9 generation/new_client/new-client.py generate \
  --api_shortname=maps-routing \
  --proto-path=google/maps/routing \
  --name-pretty="Routes API" \
  --product-docs="https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/routes" \
  --api-description="Routes API is the next generation, performance optimized version of the existing Directions API and Distance Matrix API. It helps you find the ideal route from A to Z, calculates ETAs and distances for matrices of origin and destination locations, and also offers new features." \
  --api-id=routes.googleapis.com \
  --cloud-api=false \
  --requires-billing=true \
  --distribution-name="com.google.maps:google-maps-routing"
```

# Principles

The script should finish creating a pull request even when the newly created
module fails to compile. This gives the user flexibility to fix things in the
created pull request.
