# New client generation (GitHub Action)
This new generation workflow enables generation of new libraries by
 1. Appending a new library to our [generation_config.yaml](/generation_config.yaml).
 2. Creating a PR with the changes. 

The new client will be generated by [Hermetic library generation workflow](/.github/workflows/hermetic_library_generation.yaml).


## Components
### `new_library_hermetic_build/add-new-client-config.py`
This script takes 10 arguments that map to items in the newly added library that
goes in `generation_config.yaml`.
A new entry will be added to `libraries` with the necessary generation
configuration.

### `.github/workflows/generate_new_client_hermetic_build.yaml`
This workflow orchestrates the `add-new-client-config.py` script and creates
a pull request.


## Execute the GitHub Action

In order to run the
[GitHub Action](/.github/workflows/generate_new_client_hermetic_build.yaml),
you need to specify a few parameters.
These parameters will be available in the Cloud Drop link (a YAML file) included
in the Buganizer request.
The example in this README uses AlloyDB's [Cloud Drop](https://github.com/googleapis/googleapis/blob/master/google/cloud/alloydb/v1/alloydb_v1.yaml)
file as an example.


:warning: **IMPORTANT:**
Not all the `new-client.py` arguments are available in the Github Action.
Please refer to
[this
section](/generation/new_client_hermetic_build/README.md#advanced-options)

### API short name (`api_shortname`)

As a convenience for the subsequent commands, we need an identifier for the
library, called `api_shortname`.
This identifier will be used by default to generate the following:
* `--distribution-name`
* `--library_name`

The corresponding value in the Cloud Drop page is `api_short_name`.

Example: `alloydb`

> [!IMPORTANT]
> `api_short_name` is not always unique across client libraries.
> In the instance that the `api_short_name` is already in use by an existing
> client library, you will need to determine a unique name OR to pass a unique
> `library_name`.
> See [Advanced Options](#advanced-options).

### Proto path (`proto_path`)

This is the path from the internal `google3/third_party/googleapis/stable` root
to the directory that contains the proto definitions for a specific version.
For example: `google/datastore/v2`. 
Root-level proto paths like `google/datastore` are not supported.
Note that the internal `google3/third_party/googleapis/stable` directory is
mirrored externally in https://github.com/googleapis/googleapis/blob/master/.

For example, if the Buganizer ticket includes:

> Link to protos: `http://...(omit).../google/cloud/alloydb/v1alpha/alloydb_v1alpha.yaml`.

then the corresponding external mirrored proto is here: `https://github.com/googleapis/googleapis/blob/master/google/cloud/alloydb/v1alpha/alloydb_v1alpha.yaml`.

Therefore, the "proto path" value we supply to the command is
`google/cloud/alloydb/v1alpha`.

We will publish a single module for a service that includes the specified version
(in the example, `v1alpha`).
Any future version must be manually added to the configuration yaml (`google-cloud-java/generation_config.yaml`)

#### More than one `proto_path`

If you need another `proto_path` in the library, you must manually add it
to `google-cloud-java/generation_config.yaml` after generating the new client.

### Name pretty (`name_pretty`)

The corresponding value in the Cloud Drop page is `title`.

Example: `AlloyDB API`

### Product Docs (`product_docs`)

The corresponding value in the Cloud Drop page is `documentation_uri`.
The value must starts with "https://".

Example: `https://cloud.google.com/alloydb/docs`

### REST Docs (`rest_docs`)

The corresponding value in the Cloud Drop page is `rest_reference_documentation_uri`.
The value must starts with "https://".

Example: `https://cloud.google.com/alloydb/docs/reference/rest`

If the value exists, add it as a flag to the python command below (see [Advanced
Options](#advanced-options):
`--rest-docs="https://cloud.google.com/alloydb/docs/reference/rest" \`

### RPC Docs (`rpc_docs`)

The corresponding value in the Cloud Drop page is `proto_reference_documentation_uri`.
The value must starts with "https://".

Example: `https://cloud.google.com/speech-to-text/docs/reference/rpc`

If the value exists, add it as a flag to the python command below (see [Advanced
Options](#advanced-options):
`--rpc-docs="https://cloud.google.com/speech-to-text/docs/reference/rpc" \`

### API description (`api_description`)

The corresponding value in the Cloud Drop page is `documentation.summary` or `documentation.overview`.
If both of those fields are missing, take the description from the product page
above.
Use the first sentence to keep it concise.

Example:
``` 
    AlloyDB for PostgreSQL is an open source-compatible database service that
    provides a powerful option for migrating, modernizing, or building
    commercial-grade applications.
 ```

### Distribution Name (`distribution_name`)

This variable determines the Maven coordinates of the generated library.
It defaults to `com.google.cloud:google-cloud-{api_shortname}`.
This mainly affect the values in the generated `pom.xml` files.

### Library Name (`library_name`)

This variable indicates the output folder of the library.
For example, you can have two libraries with `alloydb`
(AlloyDB and AlloyDB Connectors) as `api_shortname`. 
In order to avoid both libraries going to the default `java-alloydb` folder,
we can override this behavior by specifying a value like `alloydb-connectors`
so the AlloyDB Connectors goes to `java-alloydb-connectors`.

## Prerequisites (for local environment)

This section is only needed for the first _local_ run of this script. 

### Checkout google-cloud-java repository

```
$ git clone https://github.com/googleapis/google-cloud-java
$ git checkout main
$ git pull
```

### Install pyenv

Install pyenv

```
curl -L https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv-installer/raw/master/bin/pyenv-installer \
| bash
```

Append the following lines to `$HOME/.bashrc`.

```
export PYENV_ROOT="$HOME/.pyenv"
command -v pyenv >/dev/null || export PATH="$PYENV_ROOT/bin:$PATH"
eval "$(pyenv init -)"
eval "$(pyenv virtualenv-init -)"
```

Logout the shell and login again. You should be at the home directory.

Assuming you have the following folder structure:
```
~ (Home)
    -> IdeaProjects/
        -> google-cloud-java
    -> ...
```
You can run these next commands in the home directory (or IdeaProjects). Otherwise, run it at `google-cloud-java`'s parent directory.

Confirm pyenv installation succeeded:

```
~$ pyenv
pyenv 2.3.4
Usage: pyenv <command> [<args>]

Some useful pyenv commands are:
   activate    Activate virtual environment
   commands    List all available pyenv commands
   deactivate   Deactivate virtual environment
...
```

### Install Python 3.9 via pyenv

```
~$ pyenv install 3.9.13
Downloading Python-3.9.13.tar.xz...
-> https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.9.13/Python-3.9.13.tar.xz
Installing Python-3.9.13...
WARNING: The Python sqlite3 extension was not compiled. Missing the SQLite3 lib?
Installed Python-3.9.13 to /usr/local/google/home/suztomo/.pyenv/versions/3.9.13
```

### Install Python v3.9.13 locally

Run this command

```
$ pyenv local 3.9.13
```

Confirm `python3.9` is installed:
```
$ which python3.9
/usr/local/google/home/suztomo/.pyenv/shims/python3.9
```

### Install Python packages

At the root of google-cloud-java repository clone, run:

```
$ python3.9 -m pip install -r generation/new_client_hermetic_build/requirements.txt
```

## Advanced Options

In case the steps above don't show you how to specify the desired options, you
can run the `add-new-client-config.py` script in your local environment. 
The advanced options not shown in the section above **cannot be specified in
the GitHub Action**, hence the need for a local run (refer to the "Prerequisites
(for local environment)" section).
For the explanation of the available parameters, run:
```
python3.9 generation/new_client_hermetic_build/add-new-client-config.py generate  --help
```

After you run the script, you will see that the `generation_config.yaml` file
was modified (or the script exited because the library already existed).

Please create a PR explaining what commands you used and make sure the
add-new-client-config.py arguments were listed).

### Special case example: Google Maps

Sometimes, a library generation requires special handling for
Maven coordinates or API ID, especially when the library is not
specific to Google Cloud. The table below is the summary of the
special cases:

| API paths         | `--api_shortname`           | `--distribution-name`                                  |
|-------------------|-----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| google/shopping/* | `shopping-<API short name>` | `com.google.shipping:google-shopping-<API short name>` |
| google/maps/*     | `maps-<API short name>`     | `com.google.maps:google-maps-<API short name>`         |

where `<API short name>` is the value from Cloud Drop file.
